over the course of my life i've
encountered
some of the world's most remarkable
species of animals
only now do i realize just how lucky
i've been
many of these wonders seem set to
disappear forever
the un panel of experts has found that
one
million animal and plant species face
extinction
it is worse than expected this is
happening
much faster than we've ever seen before
today we are the asteroid that's causing
many many species to go extinct
simultaneously the evidence is that
unless
immediate action is taken this crisis
has grave impacts for us all
we're not just losing nice things to
look at we're losing
critical parts of earth's system
and it's threatening our food our water
our climate we are encroaching further
and further every day into wildlife
habitat
and that drives emerging diseases
if we carry on like this we will see
more epidemics
as bad as this and some of them could
even be worse
it's never been more critical for us to
understand what is driving this crisis
scientists have identified the key ways
in which we
humans are destroying the ecosystems on
which we depend
there are many ways to remove pieces of
the puzzle
the most obvious way is to kill
something
and we do a lot of that
we're talking about millions of animals
being snatched from the wild from
thousands of species
we have massive and widespread
overfishing
we're completely destroying the natural
balance of
fish in the world's oceans when i was a
kid in the 1960s there were three
billion people in the world
and i'm now probably going to see it
actually reach you know 9 billion
in my lifetime which is pretty startling
population growth
is much much higher in the developing
world than in the developed
but it's problematic to just talk about
population because
there are two things which are going on
it's population
but it's also consumption and in terms
of impact on the planet
what's much more important is the growth
in consumption levels
and these are far higher in the
developed economies
while in a country like the united
kingdom we have some very strong
laws on how to reduce pollution we do
have to realize
we're no longer a major industrial
country
most of the things that we actually use
are produced abroad
in countries where the laws can be
non-existent
so we are simply moving our footprint
on destroying nature to another country
many people imagine there's this
untouched wilderness
because they see it on their tv screens
but the reality is
there's really not a lot of wild left
out there we've converted
75 of the land that is not covered by
eyes
three quarters of the terrestrial
surface has been changed a lot of it's
just to feed one species
all of the calculations show we're on
track
for a three to four degree world and the
more the earth warms
the worse the problem is there are lots
of ways that climate change
will impact on species these are no
longer predictions
we are seeing it happen
those of us who care about the future of
our planet
you know we have to look at our
lifestyles and we can't look away from
our own behaviors
40 years ago people consumed a good deal
less
in the united kingdom but there is no
evidence that we were
unhappier then than we are now we can be
more
diligent about thinking about what we're
consuming and when
it's really digging down saying what's
going on here where does that come from
we need to think about meat and dairy
consumption
that's not to say that none of us should
ever eat meat or
should cut all dairy out of our diets
but we have to demand
that they are produced sustainably we
also need to start
producing affordable food without
expanding
any further into the forest
this is indeed quite possible one of the
biggest problems is incredible
we actually waste about 40 percent of
the food
that is produced if we could reduce that
food waste
it would go a long long way to making a
more sustainable agricultural system
it's not just about our current
lifestyle
but about the education of our children
on the way nature works if we don't act
now
the youth of today and the youth of
tomorrow
are going to look back on this
generation with absolute horror
what were you thinking we have a moment
when we can change our world
and make it better this is that moment
i do truly believe that together we can
create a better future i might not be
here to see it
but if we make the right decisions at
this critical moment
we can safeguard our planet's ecosystems
its extraordinary biodiversity and all
its inhabitants what happens next
is up to every one of us
[Music]
you